Hey there, welcome to the Posit Data Science Hangout. I'm Libby Heron, and this is a recording
of our weekly community call that happens every Thursday at 12 p.m. U.S. Eastern Time.
If you are not joining us live, you miss out on the amazing chat that's going on. So find
the link in the description where you can add our call to your calendar and come hang
out with the most supportive, friendly, and funny data community you'll ever experience.
Can't wait to see you there. Let's do it. I am so excited to introduce our featured
leader today, Arcenis Rojas. He's a data scientist at Indeed, and he's also a longtime
regular at the Data Science Hangout. If you've been here, you've probably seen Arcenis
ask a question. Arcenis, would you like to introduce yourself for me? Tell me what you
do and something you like to do for fun.
Sure. Thank you, Libby. So real quick, just off the top, I wasn't nervous about this at
all until you just now introduced me, so that's kind of fun. Anyway, so yeah, as you mentioned,
I'm a data scientist at Indeed with Indeed's hiring lab. And what the hiring lab is, is
basically we try to provide unbiased labor market data and analysis to the public at
large using the very unique data set that we have at Indeed, which represents both the
supply side of labor and the demand side. So that's one of those things. Now, with that
said, I am here just representing me, Arcenis, and none of the opinions or thoughts that
I share are those of Indeed necessarily, whatever that fun statement is, you've all
heard it. So there's that. Now, as for further, a little more introduction. So there are actually
two parts of the story, two major chapters of the story in my career. So there's pre-grad
school and post-grad school. So for about seven or eight years, I was in finance and
did a bunch of other stuff. I actually worked in telecoms for a little while, a lot of fun stuff.
After being an equities trader for a while, I actually realized that I liked the research
aspect of trading equities more than I actually liked the trading. So that's what prompted me to
go to grad school. While I was in grad school, I got a lot deeper into econometrics. This was for
a master's in economics. Got very deep into econometrics, became known as the data guy
in my cohort. I was very good at SPSS and then R. Now, funny story, I actually learned Python
before I learned R, but kind of got away from Python because of a lot of the things,
a lot of the reasons that other folks have talked about, about dependency hell and all that. But
now that some of those things have been resolved, I'm kind of going, hey, Python's kind of fun
again. So anyway, that's grad school, did econometrics. And I went to work for the
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics right after that for the U.S. government and very quickly became
an expert on the Consumer Expenditure Surveys Program Public Use Microdata. That's actually
the team that I worked for on the Consumer Expenditure Surveys Program. From there,
I decided that I wanted to kind of, I was an economist there technically, but I was doing a
lot of stuff with R and opening up the possibility of using open source technologies there. This was
2015, 2016. I actually ran the R users group for the entire agency for a couple of years
until 2019 when I departed to go into data science a little bit more,
kind of more directly. And I did that as a contractor for the federal government. I did
it as a contractor for private industry. I did it as a consultant with Deloitte. And there I was
doing, or sorry, consulting for public organizations, government and public service organizations.
Then I went on, did it at AWS for a little bit. And, you know, with all that, like I've been at
Indeed for a year and a half now, having a ball. So there's all of that. But through all of those
things, one of the, there are two threads in my, through in the second half of my career that I've
noticed. One that I've really enjoyed kind of the kind of trying to bridge the gap between
descriptive statistics, which is what I fell in love with in econometrics and predictive stuff.
So more of the kind of bridging the gap between the frequentist statistics, inferential and like
ML, that kind of stuff. I'm trying to bridge that gap. And one thing that I've, that I spent a lot
of, a lot of time doing in the first part of this chapter is helping people kind of understand
when, which one is useful. There was actually a paper that came out in 2010 by Shmueli. I forget
his first name. I'll have to look that up, but. Maybe somebody in the chat can find it.
Yeah. So Shmueli is a S-C-H-M-U-E-L-I. And that paper went into kind of the difference
between those two things and all that kind of stuff. So I just kind of fell in love with that
and did that for a long time. The other thread is that I love learning new technologies and
kind of understanding some of the things that are always coming into our space,
into the data science space. So yeah, a little bit of an introduction there. And I think you
said something fun. Yep. What do you like to do for fun? Scuba dive is, is the, the main thing
that goes on these days. That's when I think fun, that's what I'm thinking of. As a matter of fact.
Yeah. So the day after tiny dev day, which is the, which was the day after PositConf.
So this is the Saturday after PositConf. I went diving in the Georgia Aquarium. I went diving in
their, I think it's called Voyager, Ocean Voyager. And I got to dive with a whale shark,
giant mantas and all that. And it was phenomenal. If you do not have pictures to share with me,
I'm going to charge you with a crime. I do have pictures and I can, I can actually put them in
the, in Discord. So yeah. Yeah. That's, that's a, that's a great segue. So here are, we're going to
segue really quickly into, are you on the Discord server? If you are not, invites are open right now
only for a little while. You can follow this link, POS.IT slash Discord. Change your name to your
real name because I see your real name in Zoom. I won't recognize you otherwise. Find your way to
the Data Science Hangout channel and tag me so I can give you a little, little tag. And Arsenis,
it would be so amazing if you could share some pictures there. Okay. So what I heard from Arsenis
was public and private industry, lots and lots of experience in totally different places.
What are some other topics here that we could ask Arsenis about in our Slido questions?
So finance, econ. I've actually gotten questions from people in the Data Science Hangout
about what contracting is like, like on one-on-one questions. So maybe the difference between
contracting consulting versus being a full-time, full-time writer firm, they're, they're very
different. Well, Noor has a question that can get us started. Noor, would you like to go ahead
and ask yours? Okay. Put me on blast like that. Okay. I will. Oh God. Where'd it go? Where'd it
go? Where'd it go? It was right here. I copy into the chat too. Yes, please. Oh, I clicked the wrong
button. I found it. Okay. That's, that's hi. Hi, I'm Noor. So quick question. I noticed that you
have a lot of very econ, financial-oriented background in your data science journey.
And what do you say the things would make that are unique to financial economic data science
compared to other domains of data science? And what are things that are useful to learn
if you're someone considering pivoting into that direction?
Sure. So in terms, so what's unique about econ and data science, or about econ and finance.
So econ and finance, I actually think of as two very different domains.
So for me, econ is the very basic question of economics is why do people make the trade-offs
people make the trade-offs that they do? People and groups, why do they make the trade-offs that
they do? What are, what are the incentives that make one person or group choose one thing over
another? So it's, it's actually about making choices. Finance is more about optimizing for
certain outcomes in, you know, for financial outcomes. That's kind of how I see finance,
about the bottom line and, you know, your top line, bottom line, that kind of thing. So it's,
and there is a lot of overlap. And one of the, one of the challenges I had living in New York was
a lot of people, when I lived in New York, I grew up there. People talk to me about
economics thinking it was the same as finance. And it's like, not necessarily.
And so what's unique about econ is that it, it is, in my opinion, the, the most
statistically rigorous of the social sciences, right? Now, some, some might argue, you know,
you might say sociology, this, that, but I can, the, the rigor in economics, the statistical rigor
of it is really high, especially when you're talking about things like econometrics.
So what makes it unique is a, a deep understanding of econometrics, as well as
the models that go into economics. They're not, they're not the same as what you have in the
natural sciences or the hard sciences. Some folks will say, you know, econ is a soft science,
whereas the natural sciences are hard sciences. It's, it's really understanding probability,
probability distributions around things, forecasting, all that, which you do have
in other domains, but it's really big in econ overall is, is all about forecasting and doing
that kind of thing. The other thing that's, I would say, distinct about the social sciences
in general is the practitioners of it are, you know, obviously there, there's some differences,
but we like flat tables. We like fairly, fairly clear questions and storylines. So everything,
things try to, you know, we try to get things down to three dimensions as much as we can,
which isn't true in a lot of the other domains I've been. So some of the, so to give someone a
to give a little more context, some of the domains that I've done things in the consulting
that I did was for the NIH. So I, you know, did a lot of work with clinical data and genetic data,
as well as demographics there, aviation data at the FAA. So did all that. So it's like at the NIH,
for example, when I was consulting there, so to, to kind of contrast it with biostats or clinical
data, I actually found a lot more, many more incidents of variables, features being multi
dimensional, like a single feature having more than one dimension. Think for example,
if there is a clinical trial of some kind for a particular drug, that particular drug,
you might test it on one individual three times over that trial, right? To look at the outcomes.
Well, to answer a particular question, this set of responses that you would get
might actually be considered one thing, one categorical thing, right? Because if you limit
the responses to let's say three classes of responses, what you're interested in is that
set of responses, you're not necessarily, you're not always going to have a numerical value that
comes out as a response. What you're going to have is a class of response that the patient had
to a particular drug. And you then might have three classes, three responses that you're measuring.
And so that set of responses in and of itself is a feature that you'll have over and over.
So that's something that you don't often get a lot of, for example, in economics,
like you're not going to see stuff like that a lot. And that actually was kind of an issue that
I had to work through myself. But yeah, so the data sometimes are stored differently,
and they're understood differently by the practitioners. Me coming from economics,
I saw that and I was like, what's going on, break them up. And then I had to have
the director of the program of TB Depot explain to me, he's like, no, no, this is one thing.
And I was like, oh, that's why that's in a cell. Okay. So-
We learn new things all the time.
So yeah. Yeah, that was it.
We have a follow on to this one. So let me, let's see, let me let Marlene ask. And Marlene's
will have a follow on from Mike. Marlene, are you available?
Sorry, Marlene, I saw it was your email, so I couldn't find you at first. There you are.
Hello. Yeah, for those of us who are not worldly, what the hell are econometrics?
Because you keep using that term, I don't even know what the heck that is. And if you can explain
that all econometrics for baby style from PositConf, I'd really appreciate it. My brain is
just not braining today. No worries. No worries. Great question.
So econometrics is a kind of branch of economics that's focused primarily on statistical measurement
of things. So if someone goes into an econometrics class, you're basically going into
advanced statistics. So this is where you start learning how to do regressions and all the
modeling that we do in economics. That's what, when I say econometrics, that's what it means.
It's the metrics of economics. Okay, so follow on from Mike. Mike had asked, is the difference
that hard sciences stats is trying to explain what happened where econometrics might be
what might happen in the future?
So I wouldn't dispute that characterization, but I think the difference is much bigger,
is that the difference that I see is that in the natural sciences, you very often have very precise
measurements of things. And this thing did happen, and so I can expect this thing to happen
again if I have the same set of conditions. So given the same set of conditions that you have,
you should always get the same outcome. That's not true in economics. You may not. And so
everything is probabilistic. So in economics, we do a whole lot more like Monte Carlo simulation,
that kind of stuff. And if you're not familiar with what Monte Carlo simulation is,
basically what it is, is you have, we might call it states. You have a set of things
that you set to a certain state to start out. So let's say, for example,
what's a good one? A good one might be forecasting. Let's say forecasting
sales for a given company. What you might try to do, what you might have as inputs to your model
are things like time of year, whether there are any discounts that you're offering,
stuff like that. So imagine you have all of these. And then let's say you have a certain amount of
capital that you allocate through the sales team to go out and promote. So something you might do
is you might draw probability distributions around all of these inputs that you set. And then you
create simulations, allowing all of those changes to bounce around in those probabilities. And then
you see what your outcomes are. And then in the end, you get a distribution of an outcome,
right? So this is one of the big differences between what I would say, like all statistics
in the social sciences and like the natural sciences, that's the primary thing.
So in the natural sciences, if I have the same conditions, I should get the same outcome every
time, right? And you typically know a whole lot more about the conditions. You can control for
them a lot better in the natural sciences, typically, not always. Whereas in the social
sciences, there's just no way, you know. Humans are too complex. It's a complex system.
Yeah. Any system that you throw a human being in automatically becomes a complex system and
becomes incredibly hard. Yeah. All right. Well, Marlene, thank you so much for asking the question
that we all wanted to ask. You got a lot of love in the chat for that. We appreciate you. And I
wanted to let Rachel hop in really quickly because I know Rachel had a question for Arsenis.
Yeah, I I'm sorry if I'm shifting gears too much from econometrics right now, but I actually had
a question more about like networking because Arsenis, I know I got to see you in person at
PositConf and you're always like asking great questions here on the Hangout and connecting
with people on LinkedIn. And I was just wondering if you had any suggestions for us about making
data friends, but also about going to a conference by yourself. Yeah, so so first the use of the word
networking always kind of like puts me on end because it makes me feel like that's people
talking about other people as nodes as like it makes it transactional. So I just meant to add
that in the question because I know Libby feels that way, too. Yeah. So I just like to go places
and make friends. That's it. I just say hi. See how you're doing. Hey, what are you up to? And so
one thing one thing that is true about me, I think, is I've always got a question loaded. I'm
always wondering what are you saying? What do you mean? And, you know, I'm always processing what
people are saying. So taking that curiosity into every every environment makes it pretty easy to
just get to know people and, you know, hey, what is it that you do? And, you know, what did you do?
What did you learn in the last session that you were in at PositConf, for example? Tell me about
that. I was in this session. Which one were you at? All that. So it's just asking questions just
and as a teenager, as an adolescent, I was super duper shy. Super. You would a lot of people say
they would never believe it now. But it was it's just like I always had this curiosity and I
realized, oh, most people do like it when you ask them about something they're doing, like
they like to talk about. Yeah. So so be curious about other people and care about them.
Yeah. Just say hi and ask them whatever it is that, you know, you have on your mind about
what they're doing, you know, within social norms. But of course, just just ask, you know,
and every once in a while someone will give you a really kind of nasty, spiky response
or whatever. You know, it's not you, it's them. And that's OK. Move on. Yeah. I would say trust
the data community to be full of really nice people who if you go up to them and say, hey,
I'm new or I'm at a conference by myself, they're going to be nice to you. Yeah. So yeah, about
PositConf, I actually found the community that like the people showed up, some of the nicest
people in general, like as a as a group. And I was actually intimidated initially about seeing,
you know, Hadley and Emil and Max and Julia and like I fanboyed all over Julia. I'm not going to
lie. And she was so cool about it. She was like, hey. So we talked about like some of the work
that she had done. But I have found what you just said, Libby, about the data community. People do
tend to be very cool and very chill and everybody does things that are so different from one another
that it's kind of normal to have curiosity and to like learn from one another. So, yeah.
I love it. Everybody, if you get a chance today, put the type of data that you work with in the
chat, because that has been the biggest interesting thing to me is like we all do data, but we all
work with totally different data. Like what are your rows represent in your data? Because often
mine are people, but I'm not doing people analytics exactly. I'm not in HR, but the rows are still
usually people. OK, let's move on to Zach's question from Slido. Zach has an asterisk,
so I'm going to read it for him. And it is based on your time at the BLS. And indeed, do you see
any misconceptions about the job market online? And Direction said, especially the ATS thing.
Is the ATS thing real? Give us some insider information. OK, so what is the ATS thing?
Ah, so I think that what she's talking about is the conception that when you submit a job
application, that it is going through a program that is filing you out if you don't meet certain
criteria. And this is not something that I think is across the board everywhere.
Everyone's different. Sure. So I can't speak very intelligently to the ATS, because I've
never been on that side of things. But it is true that some organizations do use algorithms using OCR
and things of that nature to process resumes ahead of time. So that is true. That happens.
And I know that it happens because OPM at the federal government does it, right? And if OPM
is doing it, other organizations were doing it 10 years before. So yes, it does happen.
That's about as much as I can say about that. Misconceptions about the job market.
What I see more than anything is when I look, for example, at news stories from kind of all
different sources and all that, what I see is sensationalism a lot of times. And that kind of
makes it hard to see the stories that are really underlying things that are actually going on in
the data. So misconceptions that I do see tend to be more about the sensationalism than about the
data. When people talk about the data that actually exists, I actually don't hear a lot
of things that I would characterize as misconceptions. So if you focus on the data,
you're generally going to be okay. Are there any specific misconceptions that you might have had?
Well, Zach, I will say, I will pitch that Zach had worked on an article recently. So I will leave
it to him to put that in the chat for everybody if they want to see it. But I think the main
misconception or the curiosity is just that we keep seeing labor numbers that are like,
hey, the job market's not actually bad. But then the individual experience of the job market is
that it is terrible, especially for people, white collar jobs and tech. So I think that maybe that's
part of it. So yeah, so I guess I can talk about that a little bit. I don't think anybody in this
Hangout will be surprised that if you don't dig a little more deeply into the numbers,
you can very easily be fooled, right? Right. So I'm not going to talk about the current
environment. I will take it back a bunch of years to the Reagan administration, just to
not make the environment too hot. So during the Reagan administration, something that happened,
and I was just a little kid, so I'm not talking like I, but I've looked at the numbers.
And one thing that happened is that there were lots of, there were increases in the job market
happening all the time. They were going up, it was a strong job market, et cetera, et cetera.
When you dig into the numbers, what you see is there were two, I'm going to, sectors is the
wrong word, but two groups that were increasing a lot while other segments of the job market
were going down. The groups that were increasing, that were seeing increases in job openings
were low-skill employment and contract positions in the government, right? So contracting got
really big under Reagan. That was one of the things under that administration.
So those were the groups that increased. So if I take that nugget and bring it forward to today,
what I would say is look a little more deeply into the numbers. They're out there. They're
there. So if you're just looking at top-line statistics, which is what most people will do,
top-line numbers, yeah, you'll be fooled. You will certainly be fooled.
Oh, Russ just said what I was going to say, look for the Simpsons paradox or the Simpson paradox,
where you've got an overall trend that looks like it goes this way, but then when you
actually visualize those groups inside of that trend, they're all going the other way, possibly.
Or maybe you just have a highly influential bunch that is causing an overall trend to go up,
and maybe two or three sectors are moving one way when all the other ones, by and large,
are going the other way. Yeah. I would say look at it in a sector-specific
kind of way. So look at specific sectors. For sure.
Don't look at the top line. Go look at Zach's article,
because he does that. He kind of looks at like, okay, here's the overall, but what about these
sectors? Thank you, Zach, for that great question. All right, we have less than half an hour left,
and we have a ton of questions. So, Arsenis, let's see if we can get a bunch in
and do short answers with a lot of questions. Lightning round. Okay. Let me take a look at my
Slido here. Something just popped up on my screen, everybody, and it covered everything.
Give me two seconds while I get back to Slido. Okay. Suraj had a question. Suraj,
are you available to ask that one live? Yeah, just turning on my microphone.
There he is. Hey. Hi, Arsenis. Just a question about, it's slightly career-related, but I find
your career trajectory really fascinating. There's a lot of unique experiences, different domains,
different disciplines. I'm just wondering how you feel or whether you feel this gives you sort
of like an advantage and how this has helped you in your ongoing data science work. I know it does,
but I'm always struggling to explain that to people, how those experiences across different
domains and disciplines can put you at an advantage in the data science work. And on the
reverse side, do you ever feel like this has somehow been a challenge in going through these
different experiences and moving, like going on to the next thing? Just a simple example. I find
it hard to explain to people, like even my parents, what exactly I do. And at the end of a long
spiel, they'll be like, so what do you do? And I just say, computer stuff. Great question. Thank
you. So I'll answer both. I'll try and be brief here. Advantages are, there's one big one, which
is that I am now really confident that there is no data set I can't figure out pretty quickly or
tech stack that I can't figure out. So it gives me that, right?
The other advantage is that it has taught me. I've learned how to talk to people at different
levels of organizations, as well as in different domains. So the way I can communicate about data
has changed quite a bit. So I would say those are the two really big advantages.
Disadvantages, there are some big ones there as well. One, my career trajectory
doesn't show progression in the way that a lot of people like to see it on a resume.
Oh, you started out as an individual contributor, then you became a team lead, then you became a
manager. No. I don't have, I've led multiple teams and that's on my resume and stuff.
And I've done things that have bigger and bigger impact in different situations.
But what I've, my progress has been more wide than it has been kind of vertical, right?
So that can be a disadvantage depending on who you're talking to and what you're trying to do,
what you're trying to accomplish. Another disadvantage of it is that,
like you just kind of alluded to, it gets really, it gets challenging talking about
what it is that you do or what it is that you're good at to anybody that's not in the field.
So there's, all they see is you go from this thing to that thing, to that thing, to that,
you just seem like whatever. But there is, like in me, I actually have found a very
consistent set of interests and things that I'm good at and things that I enjoy doing.
And they are, to explain them, it would get, it could get a little bit technical very quickly,
right? So I kind of, like you, I stay away from getting into too much detail about what I do.
But I do tell people that the stuff that I do is, you know, I'll say things like, you know,
I build models to predict things or sometimes to explain things. That's one of the things that I
enjoy most. Also, I talk a little bit about building dashboards. So I built, you know,
most people understand the word app. So, you know, like I'll build internal apps for people to
kind of get data insights very quickly. So, you know, depending on what it is that I'm working
on, that's how I'll describe it. I keep it very high level. Like you just alluded to computer
stuff. Yeah. Something like that. But the disadvantages, yeah, those are the disadvantages
and big advantages I see. Thank you, Arsena. Thank you, Suresh, for asking that question.
All right. I wanted to move on here to, is this one, does this one have an asterisk? I can't tell.
The name is an asterisk. So maybe I'm asking this question for this person, whoever it is.
And it is, how is the recent hype wave of AI integration manifesting in Indeed's operations,
if at all? And you do not have to speak specifically to Indeed, but just in your
experience, what you're seeing in relation to improving a user's experience of finding
a job in the age of like ghost jobs and spam postings. So I will reformat this question to
say, how do you see AI affecting the hiring sphere and people analytics sphere? So I'm going
to talk about this in two senses. One, very high level, like you just asked Libby, but then I will
address some of the stuff at Indeed. So very high level. I actually helped with a big research
project called Gen AI at Work. How we expect it to affect different things. And what we did was
we took a little over 5,000 skills and we looked at how generative AI would,
how well it can do those skills. And then we took different job titles, you might say,
and we basically said, okay, of all these job titles that we have, how many of those skills can
AI replace or assist with? And so the main author on this, her name is Anina Herring.
She actually created an index for this. So that exists. And the short answer to this part of the
question is, AI is going to assist a lot of people in their work in the coming 5, 10 years,
but it will be able to replace very small segments only of the workforce.
Now, some of the things that are going to be most highly impacted, entry level tech jobs or
anything that's entry level knowledge work. Entry level knowledge work is what generative AI
is meant to do, right? If you think about what those things are, very general questions.
Okay. So now with Indeed itself, we're actually implementing it in a lot of ways internally. So
we have an agentic AI job coaching experience. So if you go on Indeed and you use it in any way,
you'll actually see on the website now, there's an offer. If you use it as a job seeker,
you'll see that there's this agentic or AI job seeker agent or something like that,
that actually helps you go through the process and identify job postings that are better for you.
So that's one way. I actually just built a chat bot that analyzes data internally for our team,
which could bring the cost of doing that down quite a bit. So yeah, Indeed is using it quite a
lot. And ghost jobs, I want to address that because I'm actually about to start a big research project
on that. Well, I don't know how big, but a research project on that. And so there is evidence
in the data that there seems to be ghost jobs, at least in our data. I don't know anywhere else,
but we're not, I can't say for sure yet there are ghost jobs.
Can we define ghost jobs for anybody who isn't aware of what they might be?
Sure. So a ghost job is a case where an employer or somebody puts out a job announcement,
but they don't actually intend to hire for it, right? So this is a very kind of brief and kind
of rough description of what it is. So yeah, so we're looking at, it appears that we do have some
ways of finding out if that's going on in our data. I don't know yet cause I haven't gotten
into it, but so there's not a lot I can say yet. But yeah, it seems that ghost jobs are actually
happening. Now there are trends that you can actually see on our website. They're actually
available and this is not, there's nothing confidential that I'm giving away by saying
this and it's that job postings overall have been decreasing overall job postings, but the number of
postings that are somewhat new, it appears that that has not been decreasing. And so, you know,
there's some trends that some folks saw at Indeed that... Very interesting. Yeah. Mike says,
why? I'm window shopping for people to see who will apply. Like, what is the point of that?
I think the point of ghost jobs is to make it look like you're hiring when you're not, so that
you look as a publicly traded company, like you are healthy, right? And it's like a market strategy,
which I think few people win from that except for big corporations. Okay, let's move on because we
have only 15 minutes left, but I did put a Slido poll up about whether or not you've ever gotten
a job on the hidden market before. That's a job that was not posted. And so far, we only have 13
votes, but the majority of those 13 say yes, they have. And I will say many of the jobs I've gotten
have not been posted. So this is a great question, Zach, that Zach had posed in the chat. All right,
let's head back over to the questions in Slido. And thank you, anonymous asker, whoever that was
for asking that. And I wanted to sort of follow on with, let me see. I wanted to ask a little bit
more. And Diana had asked actually about the data architecture behind a big company such as Indeed.
One of my questions was, you mentioned doing reporting. We didn't ask you about your tool
stack. So what are the tools that you use in your job to do something like this big report?
So I'm going to, the core stuff that I use is R, Positron now, I've kind of, I think I've made
the switch fully over now from RStudio. So R, Positron, AWS. So on AWS, I use Athena a lot for
our databases, as well as Snowflake. So that's kind of the core of everything. Okay. Yeah,
there's some other things around it like Asana and all this, but yeah, that's the core data science
stuff. Okay, cool. So is reporting like quarto reporting or is it like inward? Yeah, sorry.
So yeah, two things. So reporting is going to be primarily quarto docs. We do a lot of those
internally. But I also build some shiny applications that are, and we have those on
PositConnect for the most part. So yeah. Okay. Gosh, I wish I knew more about AWS.
Lulu is saying like AWS and Snowflake, interesting. Thank you, Diana, for asking that question,
because it was exactly what I wanted to ask as well. And then there was something that,
Arsenis, we talked about in our prep call, we talked privately about this,
but I know that everybody in our community will benefit from talking about this. So I would love
to ask, and that is, how do you know when it is time to pivot and leave your role because your
skills are stagnating? You have worked at a bunch of different places. So have I. Arsenis and I
might be called job hoppers, I guess, by some people, maybe. I don't think job hopping is bad.
I follow my energy and I follow my interests and what is good for me. So I'm going to pose
this question to Arsenis, but I am also going to pose it to everybody in Slido. I put a little
poll up there that only has two answers to it. But Arsenis, what are your thoughts on this?
So real quick, I just put a link in the chat for the report that I was talking about,
about how we expect Gen AI will affect work. Okay. So if I understood the question correctly,
it's like, how do you decide when it's time to go?
How do you prioritize yourself? So you're in a role, your skills are stagnating,
your company's not going to change. You've already tried. What do you do? And for the poll,
for context, I put the answers as you look for a new role at a new company,
or you stay at your job and you try to learn outside of work hours, which for me is a no-go.
I've done both. Okay. So the first thing, the first thing that you have to say is,
okay, so the first thing, the first thing that you have to start with is,
what actually do you bring? What do you enjoy? To have a job, a happy career, I actually see it
as the triangulation of three things. Something you're good at, that you enjoy doing, that you
can sell. Now with being in tech, tech is always changing, but the triangulation of those three
things in yourself might not change. So you have to know yourself. What is it that you actually
like doing, that you're good at, that you can bring to the market, to the labor market? That's
step one. And if you find that the role around you is moving in a direction that doesn't correspond
well with that, then you have to start asking questions like, do I want to stay in this?
So for me, I always start with explaining to the leadership structure around me, hey,
this role is moving in a direction that doesn't correspond well with what I'm doing,
or what I enjoy doing. Here are some things that I have done in the role, and I try to always
have some accomplishments kind of on the list. Here are some things that I have done that
correspond really well with what I enjoy doing. No leader, look, no company, no management team,
they never want to have employees that hate what they do. Nobody wants that, right? So a good
manager, a good leader will try to, will take the information you're giving them on board.
But remember, they also have to think about the company, the organization, and if it has
to go in the direction that's different from what you like, that's just what's got to happen.
And so you might work out a solution. My preference would be to stay at the organization when I can,
but that's kind of how I go through the decision-making process. If it's time to look
elsewhere, it's time to do that. But I just can't see making my life miserable, you know what I mean?
Just, it's something that nobody wants. If you're a miserable person, you're not giving your
company good work anyway, is my argument here. If you need one for the company side.
Mike says he's changed his role four or five times within Pfizer. I think that's a great point to
make that if you have a really big company to move around within, that gives you the opportunity to
do that. That's a great thing. There was a question that came from a community member just in the
past couple of weeks before PositConf, which was, how would you persuade a colleague or a team or
leadership to use R or Python when they do not? I'm going to put this in Slido for anybody who
wants to answer it. Kind of a long text answer that I can give back to our community member who
asks this, but this is a fantastic place to say, you're not always going to change your company.
Like sometimes it's just going to be like, nope, it's not. You are the one who has to be in control
and move on. All right, let's go. Oh, would you like to follow up? We only have eight minutes
left by the way, everybody. I can do this quickly if you want, because I've done it a bunch of times.
So with individuals, if the individual is somebody who is kind of open-minded and is
interested in learning stuff, you can actually show them how easy it is to use R or Python by
just typing one plus one in the console, right? That usually gets somebody like, oh, what else can
I do? With organizations, it depends a lot on the organization and how kind of tech forward they are
and all that. So at the BLS, one of the first things that I was challenged to do by the manager
of one of our tech teams, he had me write a very short report on the differences between like SAS,
R, SPSS, and some of these things, like the negatives and positives of all of them. So
that was one thing I did. She started to get convinced. At the BLS, the effort was a lot
bigger because I actually had to convince many, many individuals and I had to get the people that
were already on board to start talking about it more. So it was more about like getting community
around it. Like, yeah, we're all doing it. And once there was community around it, you know,
the leadership couldn't but pay attention. Like they kind of had to. And then when you told them,
hey, it'll save you a bunch of money as well. Then they were like, well, maybe we should look.
Yeah. And there's a great point from Renato in the chat here that says, I'm an independent
consultant. So I learn new things like, say, quarto on my own time and just try to introduce
them in my next gig if they're a good fit for it. Not everybody is at an organization. Some people
are independent. Like I have been in the past. And I think that that's a really great thing.
Like pick a personal project, go for it, and then feel more confident about suggesting that
people use that in your next assignment. You can kind of do that inside of a job too.
All right. What can we do with our last five minutes? Thank you so much, Arsenis, for
giving us your experience on that one. We had one that was about the impact of AI and on entry level
careers and people who are pivoting into data science from other domains. I feel like we
answered that one a little bit. Is there anything that you want to expand on that one?
No, not so much. I think we've covered that a little bit. Okay. Yeah, we covered that a bit.
All right. We had a question that I will post to the chat, which was, any advice on balancing
learning new skills with pivoting to a new sector or learning new skills when pivoting into a new
sector? I think that when you're looking for a full time job and trying to upscale into something,
that can be hard. I will leave that one for the chat. Let's ask Renato's question
for our last question of the day. Renato, are you available to ask yours live?
Yes. This will be probably our last one. Yes. All right. Yeah. There's this thing where people
say that to a hammer, everything is a nail. Once you learn more complex things, when you went from
descriptive statistics to predictive statistics, did you find yourself in a situation where you're
always trying to use more complex things to solve a problem, but the audience would be
better served with something that was less complex than that? Maybe descriptive statistics
was good enough for a problem, but you tried to push predictive ones or something like that.
Yeah. I understand your question, I think, really well. Here's how I'll answer it. I'm going to talk
about my experience at Deloitte. I had two things pulling at me. I had the folks in my Deloitte
structure trying to get me to use more machine learning models, but then the director of the
program, the TB Depot program, he wanted just inferential statistics like regular...
We were using logistic regression and all that. He was happy with that.
The way that I actually ended up bridging the gap was I looked at... I just talked to the
director for a while and I said, okay, what is it you're actually trying to do with this thing?
What I learned was they were actually serving two audiences and he wasn't aware of it.
One audience was he wanted to serve researchers who would need more inferential statistics,
you want confidence intervals, you want all that, but he was also trying to serve clinicians.
A clinician does not care what the confidence interval is around an estimate. They want to
know, is my patient going to die? That's their concern. For that, predictive stuff was better.
What I did was I ended up using a lot of stuff like SHAP and LIME and all that to help the
director go, okay, yeah, we can use ML, using explainable ML. This is 2019. I helped with that,
but I ended up doing both on this project. The way that I did it was I helped the director see,
hey, you actually have two audiences. First, you have to understand the problem. It's always
listen first, figure out what the real question is, and that's how you can bring the two sides
together. Did that answer your question? Renato? I hope.
Renato might not be able to unmute to say thank you, but I think that, yes,
and thank you, Renato, for the great question. We only have two minutes left. So, right now,
I will say, don't forget that you can save your chat. Top right corner, there are three dots that
you can click to save the chat, but also, if you have not joined the Posit data science community
discord, I am sticking the link there in the chat. That link to POS.IT is only going to be
available for the next couple of hours, and then it's going to go away. Make sure you come to the
data science hangout channel and tag me and say hello so I can give you a badge. Arsenis is there.
We are going to hope that Arsenis adds pictures from his dive at the Georgia Aquarium.
I will. Yes. All right. Everybody, join me in saying thank you to Arsenis. Arsenis,
thank you for hanging out with us today. Thank you all for having me. Thank you so much, Arsenis,
and Libby, do you mind if I say one second about the workflow demo coming up this month?
Absolutely. Sometimes, in some of the great feedback we get in the Zoom survey,
a few people will ask for more of like a demo-type space as well, so I just want to make
sure I always let people know that once a month, we have these workflow demos, and we typically
will walk through a different end-to-end workflow demo using POSIT tools, but we've been doing a
Positron focus for the last month and the next two months, and so on October 29th, we have one on AI
powered data science with Positron, and so we'll dive deeper into DataBot and Positron Assistant.
So I just shared the Zoom registration link if anybody wants to check it out.
There's also the recording from last month's too, but so nice to see everybody. It's nice to see
everybody too, and I will say for anybody who is just now hopping off, if you have the urge to
do fun technical things with your friends and learn about Positron, come find me on the Discord
server because I am going to be doing some like live let's hang out and just look at our settings
and Positron stuff soon, and I would love to invite you, but I need to know that you're interested
in that so I can get that your way. All right, everybody, I will see you on the Discord server.
Come hang out, and also keep your eye on the Discord because we might be doing some things
after hours at the hangout soon, and I will announce those there. All right, bye. Have a
fantastic week. We're going to see you next week with Elliot Murphy, VP of Engineering at Posit.
You're not going to want to miss that one. Bye.